**solUI** - _pronounced "solly"_ - is a declarative UI generator for smart contracts running on the [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org) blockchain. It makes it easier to both develop _and_ deploy user-friendly interfaces for smart contracts running on any public or private chain.

Smart contract developers traditionally have two approaches for creating and deploying user interfaces for their contracts:

1. **ABI-based UI**
    * _Pros:_
      * Quick and easy, since ABI (Application Binary Interface) is auto-generated by compiler.
      * Consistent look and feel for all UIs so users can easily and quickly learn to use new smart contracts.
    * _Cons:_
      * Not as user-friendly as a full-fledged Dapp UI.
      * UI is non-intuitive for users unless they understand the ABI or have additional instructions on how to use it.
      * Doesn't scale well to applications which require calling functions across multiple contracts in sequence.
      * Users must have the ABIs since they are not stored on-chain _(although this could be
        mitigated via e.g. [EthPM](https://www.ethpm.com/) tooling)_.

2. **Dapp (usually a web app)**
    * _Pros:_
      * User-friendly and intuitive since UI is bespoke and thus fully customizable.
      * Provides users with the most app-like experience.
    * _Cons:_
      * Inconsistent look and feel across contracts since there is no
      current UI layout/theming standard (e.g. [Material Design]()) for Ethereum. Thus, users have to learn and remember many different UI styles.
      * Time-consuming to build, unlike an ABI-based UI. Must also then be maintained and kept in sync with contracts.
      * Smart contract developer will usually need to work with a team to build the UI, since UI development requires different skills.
      * Dapp needs to be deployed and hosted somewhere.

In a nutshell, there has traditionally been no way to create a user interface that
is both intuitive for end-users and easy for developers to build and deploy.

solUI attempts to solve these issues and more by providing a solution that sits
between an ABI-based generated UI and a fully fledged Dapp.

**solUI interfaces are deterministically generated from a declarative specification.**

A solUI [specification](../../Specification) can be
used to generate a UI on a wide variety of platforms, wherein the UI is
rendered according to each platform's specific
look and feel and layout.

**Note:** solUI is not intended for replacing full fledged Dapp UIs tailored to a specific
application. However, it is far better than an ABI UI and for many contracts
may indeed be sufficient as the primary user-facing interface, negating the
need to build a Dapp in the first place.

Even if you already have a Dapp UI, it might be worth giving your users a solUI
interface as an fallback in case your hosted Dapp becomes inaccessible at
any point in time.

Read more about the [key benefits](../KeyBenefits).
